# Background
The Applied Mathematics Lab (AML) was contracted by the Baltimore Humane Society to evaluate donation history to classify donors, visualize donation data, and understand what factors encourage major donations.

# Geocoding
One of our tasks was to convert a .csv file that consisted of over 20,000 addresses into a set of GPS coordinates. This conversion is known as geocoding. This was necessary because other projects within the AML project relied heavily on a set of coordinates. Geocoding eases the process of handling a large dataset more easily so a machine can perform tasks. Using the Google Maps API, we were able to geocode over 97% of all addresses provided to us.

In this repository, you will find a sample list of addresses (sample.csv) and a Python file that performs the process of geocoding (geocoding.py). The formatting of sample.csv is as follows (by column): 

ID number, Name, Address1, Address2, Address3, Address4, City, State, Zip Code

However you process an address depends on how many fields you need for an address; geocoding.py accounts for as many as four fields for an address. The Python file should generate three .csv files as output: one that consists of successfully geocoded addresses, one that consists of unsuccessfully geocoded addresses, and one that consists of donors with a lack of address information in the database.

The status of all donors can be compiled into a single file using donor_id_sorting.py. This file reads the output files generated by geocoding.py and places donors into an output file that consists of donor ID, geocoding status (good, bad, or none), and GPS coordinates if applicable.

Packages required: googlemaps (requires a key from the Google Maps API to work), csv

# Donor Grouping
The AML sought to find ways to categorize donors based on their donation history. One of the ways was to create functions that would not only capture how much a donor donated at a given time, but also capture how active a donor was over a span of donations. Each function generated was considered a donor profile. The main goals were to highlight potential periods of inactivity and to distinguish similar donation amounts and times by converting the discrete data from the donor database into a continuous function. For example, if a donor donated 25 dollars in March 2013 and did not make another donation until May 2016, it was important to capture this period of inactivity; drawing a line segment connecting the two donation amounts would not capture this inactivity. Instead, smooth, bell-shaped functions were created to showcase donors' donation behaviors.

In this repository, you will find a sample list of donor IDs accompanied with days a donation was made and donation amounts (days_gift_amounts) and a Python file that creates the donor profiles (functions.py).

The Python file generates a graph composed of multiple donors' profiles. Ultimately, each function is composed of a piecewise quartic function with roots that are 200 units apart and have a value of 0 outside of the bell. Once functions were generated for one donor, all bell functions were aggregated to generate one smooth, continuous function. At this stage, this smooth function is considered a donor profile.

Packages required: csv, numpy, matplotlib

